---
title: "Higgs transition in magnetic materials"
excerpt: "Gauge field gapped by gauge charge condensation"
header:
#  image: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-1.jpg
   teaser: assets/images/nzo_mc_pdf.png
  
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/nzo_mc_ie_gap_closing.png
    image_path: assets/images/nzo_mc_ie_gap_closing.png
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
  - url: /assets/images/nzo_mc_pdf.png
    image_path: assets/images/nzo_mc_pdf.png
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
# Ice could be the most common substance in our life. However, it has many striking physical properties. For example, the density of ice is approximately 90% of water, 
---
J. Xu, Owen Benton, A.T.M.N. Islam, T. Guidi, G. Ehlers, and B. Lake, Order out of a Coulomb Phase and Higgs Transition: Frustrated Transverse Interactions of Nd<sub>2</sub>Zr<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>
[Phys. Rev. Lett. 124, 097203(2020)](https://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.124.097203)

{% include gallery caption="Molecular dynamics simulations showing the closing of the gap to the spin-ice modes with increasing temperature; Probability distribution function for x, y and z spin components and their summations of a tetrahedron." %}

The pyrochlore material Nd<sub>2</sub>Zr<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> with an “all-in-all-out” (AIAO) magnetic order shows novel quantum moment fragmentation with gapped flat dynamical spin ice modes. The parametrized spin Hamiltonian with a dominant frustrated ferromagnetic transverse term reveals a proximity to a U(1) spin liquid. Here we study the magnetic excitations of Nd<sub>2</sub>Zr<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> above the ordering temperature (<i>T</i><sub>N</sub>) using high-energy-resolution inelastic neutron scattering. We find strong spin ice correlations at zero energy with the disappearance of gapped magnon excitations of the AIAO order. It seems that the gap to the dynamical spin ice closes above <i>T</i><sub>N</sub> and the system enters a quantum spin ice state competing with and suppressing the AIAO order. Classical Monte Carlo simulations, molecular dynamics, and quantum boson calculations support the existence of a Coulombic phase above <i>T</i><sub>N</sub>. Our findings relate the magnetic ordering of Nd<sub>2</sub>Zr<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> with the Higgs mechanism and provide explanations for several previously reported experimental features.
